

=== https://sp-ie.metu.edu.tr/en ===
Industrial Engineering Summer Practice Skip to main content IE METU Türkçe Industrial Engineering Summer Practice Menu ▾ Home General Information Steps to Follow Documents/Forms SP Opportunities Previous SP Opportunites FAQ SP Committee 02 SP meeting 2025: A general meeting on the IE 300 - IE 400 summer internship courses and the Summer Practice (SP) procedures will be held on March 14, 2025, at 14.40 in IE03 for IE300 and in IE04 for IE400. The slides of the meeting can be found here . In case you have any queries related to the summer practice procedures, we kindly ask you to first go through the meeting slides and our SP webpage carefully, and send an email only if you cannot find the answer of your question there. SGK insurance applications: The OCW system for applying for the SGK insurances is now activated. Please read the instructions in General Information carefully before applying for your SGK insurance. Summer internship contracts: If you need your SP work contract (staj sözlesmesi) to be signed, please leave it to the Undergraduate Secretary Office, IE 129 and get it back in one week. Announcements all announcements >> Introductory Meeting for Summer Practice IE300 and IE400 / News The introductory meeting for Summer Practice will take place this Friday (March 22, 2024) in two sessions in IE03.
The first session is between 12.40-13.30, specifically for IE400.
The second session... 21/03/2024 Summer Practice Calendar (SPRING 2023-2024) / News The calendar for IE300/400 in Spring 2023-2024 is posted below.

Submission of Transcripts: March 8, 2024 @11.00 pm


Submission of Summer Practice reports: March 17, 2024 @11.00 pm


Announcement... 21/03/2024 IE300 and IE400 Summer Practice Manuals / News You can find IE300 Summer Practice Manual, IE400 Summer Practice Manufacturing Manual, and IE400 Summer Practice Service Manual under Forms. 21/03/2024 Summer Practice Opportunities / News If there are new summer-practice opportunities available, you can check to see them. 21/03/2024 Üniversiteler Mahallesi, Dumlupınar Bulvarı No:1, 06800 Çankaya/Ankara © ORTA DOĞU TEKNİK ÜNİVERSİTESİ ANKARA KAMPUSU

=== https://sp-ie.metu.edu.tr/en/general-information ===
General Information |  Industrial Engineering Summer Practice Skip to main content IE METU Türkçe Industrial Engineering Summer Practice Menu ▾ Home General Information Steps to Follow Documents/Forms SP Opportunities Previous SP Opportunites FAQ SP Committee General Information English Türkçe Important information for students who will do their SP this summer: - Summer internships must be done by physically attending the work place. - For IE 400, project based internships are allowed. Project based internship should be at least 6 weeks. Before the internship, you need to submit a proposal to the SP Committee which covers the content of the internship in detail. If the proposal is approved you can do the project based internship. - I nternships in public institutions : All public institutions in Turkey (Kamu kurumları) accept internship applications through a centralized system. Please consult this page for further information. - Within the Erasmus program , it is possible to do an internship within the scope of Student Internship mobility. You may generally prefer an internship in Europe for a minimum of 3 months and a maximum of 12 months. For detailed information, please check the Erasmus office website . If the summer internships completed within the scope of this program are made for a short term (3 months), it can only be counted as one of IE300 and IE400 internship. https://sp-ie.metu.edu.tr/en/general-information SGK Insurance Application System SGK Insurance Applications will be followed via METU OpenCourseWare platform (OCW) . The insurance application module in the OCW system is now open. All 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4 th year students are registered to the “ IE300/400 Summer Internship ” course by default. Please note the following: 1. The “IE300/400 Summer Internship” OCW course is created only for the practical purpose of collecting the insurance application information of students. This is not a real “course”. Note that when your internship is over, you still need to get registered for the IE300 or IE400 courses in the Fall semester (or summer school if you are planning to). 2. If you are not planning to do an SP this year, just ignore all the instructions below. You do not have to do anything about the OCW system. Students who will do a SP this summer should carefully read the information below about “When to apply” and “How to apply” for the SGK insurance. When to apply for the SGK insurance The ideal moment to apply for the insurance using the OCW system is 2-3 weeks before the beginning of your internship. To make the procedure work efficiently, let us follow these ground rules: 1. SGK insurance requests are processed by Rektörlük. As an internship committee our role is to make a pre-check the required info. and then deliver the requests to Rektörlük . 2. On the Monday morning of each week, the insurance applications of students beginning their internships within two weeks will be sent to Rektörlük. For example, the list sent on June

=== https://sp-ie.metu.edu.tr/en/steps-follow ===
Steps to Follow |  Industrial Engineering Summer Practice Skip to main content IE METU Türkçe Industrial Engineering Summer Practice Menu ▾ Home General Information Steps to Follow Documents/Forms SP Opportunities Previous SP Opportunites FAQ SP Committee Steps to Follow English Türkçe Before Summer Practice Examine the Summer Practice Website as early as you can, as much as you can. Read the Summer Practice Manual which can be reached from our SP website under the “Documents/Forms” tab. It will be helpful to decide whether the company will satisfy the requirements that you may answer the questions listed in the manual if you complete your internship in the company. Check the additional information related with paid insurance or SGK insurance paid by the school on our website. Find yourself a company for summer practice. You may i. Check the list of companies contacted the department for summer practice students. ii. Use your social skills, family, friends, and others to establish contacts. iii.Examine the summer practice databases of earlier years. Some companies request a document (letter) explaining the aim of the internship, minimum duration of the internship and stating that the insurance for the summer practice will be paid by METU. You can find the SP Application Letter on our SP website (see Documents/Forms tab). You need to fill out the signed letters with the required information. Some companies may request an SP protocol ( sözleşme ) form. If you need one, please visit the SP website. Under the Documents/Forms tab, you can find a sample agreement form. After you fill out the agreement, you need to leave the form to Undergraduate Secretary Office. You can pick up the signed form in a week. Make sure that you carefully read the instructions for the insurance on our SP website. Please apply for your SGK insurance on time. You are ready. Go and start your summer work. During Summer Practice Do attend the work with full concentration, be vigilant and observe what is going on, try to participate. You will write a detailed report soon. Don't forget that you can work at the same place next year for salary. Regularly take notes to help you in writing the final report. Prepare draft version of your report while conducting your practice. (Be prepared that you need to upload your report as soon as the new semesters starts.) You also need to have the "SP Evaluation Form" and “Employer Survey” (see Documents tab in SP website) filled out and signed by your SP supervisor. Your SP supervisor can send the “SP Evaluation Form" and “Employer Survey” to the Department Undergraduate Student Affairs by email in pdf format (to “ sp-belge@metu.edu.tr ” ). The document can be signed traditionally or digitally. It is also possible to send the document to the Student Affairs by post in a closed envelope. If you receive a payment during your SP, you need to fill in the " Paid SP Questionnaire " under the IE300/400 course at OCW. Download, print, and sign the Paid

=== https://sp-ie.metu.edu.tr/en/forms ===
401 Unauthorized Unauthorized This server could not verify that you
are authorized to access the document
requested.  Either you supplied the wrong
credentials (e.g., bad password), or your
browser doesn't understand how to supply
the credentials required.

=== https://sp-ie.metu.edu.tr/en/faq ===
FAQ |  Industrial Engineering Summer Practice Skip to main content IE METU Türkçe Industrial Engineering Summer Practice Menu ▾ Home General Information Steps to Follow Documents/Forms SP Opportunities Previous SP Opportunites FAQ SP Committee FAQ English Türkçe How can I arrange a summer practice organization? There are two alternatives; either you apply to organizations personally or wait for the summer practice opportunities announced by the department. The second option is more risky and the capacity is usually very limited. Certain firms require the department to determine the candidates for summer practice. In that case, an announcement is made and the students are required to send their transcripts, resumes and fill out the Preference Form available under >Forms. If the student is assigned through the department, it is mandatory that the summer practice is conducted at that company. Which departments of the organization should I visit during my summer practice? It is preferable for you to take an all-around trip in an organization. However, do not forget that you can still gather many observations through effective communications. You inquire about the overall operations in your practice organization although you are stationed at a particular department. What kind of topics will I be studying during the practice term? Industrial engineering has a broad application area. Its main field of interest is systems run by people for the needs of others, in general. Summer practice is your first lengthy period of observing and inquiring about systems in operation. Try as much as you can, to relate things you have covered in your courses to what you experience during your practice term. Learn about the many possible ways of getting various organizational and technical functions performed. Identify the systems behind all those activities. Use your "Summer Practice Manual" to guide you through this effort. What sort of branches or divisions in a bank are suitable for an IE 400 practice organization? As in many organizations banks have numerous activities in providing services to their customers. You should be more interested in the systems (for example organizational, information related, procedural, managerial) aspects in this service provision. In IE 400 Summer Practice you are required to observe and analyze a purposeful system in real life. Divisions or branches in a bank are suitable in that regard so much as they consist of integrated operation of people, financial resources, processes and information with some performance expectation, and they have ongoing decision making (for example, planning or evaluation) or development (for example, new services) as their required function. What is the paperwork needed to get officially registered to summer practice? Four steps are required: Add IE 300/ IE 400 course in the registration at the beginning of the semester. Submit the summer practice reports to Students Affair Secretary (Room IE 128) within th